---
layout: managedprocess
categories: tutorial
title: Managed Process Tutorial
---

### Introduction

In order to explore the `ManagedProcess` API, we will present a simple
example taken from the test suite, which exercises some of the more
interesting features.

The main idea behind `ManagedProcess` is to separate the functional
and non-functional aspects of a process. By functional, we mean whatever
application specific task the process performs, and by non-functional
we mean the *concurrency* or, more precisely, handling of the process'
mailbox.

Let's imagine we want to execute tasks on an arbitrary node, using a
mechanism much as we would with the `call` API from distributed-process.
As with `call`, we want the caller to block whilst the remote task is
executing, but we also want to put an upper bound on the number of
concurrent tasks. We will use `ManagedProcess` to implement a generic
task server with the following characteristics

* requests to enqueue a task are handled immediately
* callers will block until the task completes (or fails)
* an upper bound is placed on the number of concurrent running tasks

Once the upper bound is reached, tasks will be queued up for later
execution, and only when we drop below the limit will tasks be taken
from the backlog and executed.

`ManagedProcess` provides a basic protocol for *server-like* processes
such as this, based on the synchronous `call` and asynchronous `cast`
functions. Although `call` is synchronous, communication with the
*server process* is out of band, both from the client and the server's
point of view. The server implementation chooses whether to reply to
a call request immediately, or defer its reply until a later stage
and go back to receiving messages in the meanwhile.

### Implementation Sketch

We start out with some types: the tasks we perform and the maximum
pool size:

{% highlight haskell %}
type PoolSize = Int
type SimpleTask a = Closure (Process a)
{% endhighlight %}

To submit a task, our clients will submit an action in the process
monad, wrapped in a `Closure` environment. We will use the `Addressable`
typeclass to allow clients to specify the server's location in whatever
manner suits them.
